---
title: PDF Optimizer
description: Optimize PDF documents for size, download & opening speeds,
  efficient printing and other options
icon: null
---

PDF Optimizer is a command line tool for Windows or Linux 64-bit platforms that you can use to optimize PDF documents. With this product you can count on maximum file size reduction and enterprise-level accuracy and reliability. PDF Optimizer offers flexible control, allowing you to optimize your documents for a wide range of document workflows.

Optimize a PDF document so that it will download faster, open more quickly in a web browser or PDF viewer, print more efficiently, or be better suited for long-term preservation. Select exactly what type of content you prefer to preserve or discard, fine-tune image compression options, and optionally convert to a PDF/A or PDF/X standard.  With PDF Optimizer, you can ensure that your PDF documents will always be as small as possible while still meeting your needs.

Optimizing can also improve the performance of a PDF document without necessarily making that document smaller.  The optimization process can discard objects and features within a PDF document that require excess processing time. A complicated PDF document with a lot of features will tend to take more time to load, regardless of the size.

## Activate Your Free Trial

1. Get your free trial activation key [here](https://www.datalogics.com/reduce-pdf-file-size).
2. Copy the activation key
3. Download the software
4. Run the .exe or .bsx (Linux) file to install
5. Paste the activation key when promoted
6. Start optimizing your PDFs!

## Questions?

Join our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/jNSHcSdRre) or ask our AI Assistant [Scout](https://www.datalogics.com/?askai=true)

### What you get with PDF Optimizer

- A Windows or Linux command line tool for making PDF documents smaller or more efficient, or both
- The capacity to create and use JSON profile files, each one providing a list of settings for processing PDF documents from a command line or as part of an automated workflow. JSON, or JavaScript Object Notation, is an open standard file format that relies on easily readable English text, and it is used as an alternative to XML.
- Technical support from our team of digital document specialists and professionals.  You can contact your Datalogics Support representative directly by electronic mail or visit our support site for this product.
- Regular software updates
- Comprehensive user documentation, provided as a PDF file and online at our Developer Resource site.

## User Guide & API Reference

[PDF Optimizer User Guide](https://tinyurl.com/DatalogicsOptimizer)
