---
navtitle: PDF2IMG Guide
title: PDF2IMG Guide
---

## Overview

A command-line utility and API that converts PDF files to a variety of image formats, including PNG, JPG, TIFF, BMP, and more. The product is built upon the Adobe PDF Library and uses Adobe technology for unrivaled color management during the PDF conversion process. While PDF2IMG can be run with as few as two command line arguments, many other optional command line arguments are provided so that you can create custom output. PDF2IMG is available on both Windows and Linux platforms, 32 and 64 bit.

::alert{type="info"}
### **Command-line tool download includes** **PDF2IMG C SDK**
::

## NuGet Users

1. Copy the activation key
2. Run a sample from Github in Visual Studio 2022, Visual Studio 2022 for Mac, or VS Code and enter the above key when prompted

## Docker Users

1. Copy Docker Pull Command docker pull datalogics/pdf2img

Please note: The temporary activation key will work once to generate a node-locked license, meaning it will be usable only in that container. This is a limitation of the evaluation, not the product itself. PDF2IMG needs access to the PDF files and a place to write the output files, which can be accomplished with a volume or simply by copying files into and out of the container.

## **Website Download Users**

1. Copy the activation key
2. Download the software (Need to download again? Get it now.)
3. Run the .exe or .bsx (Linux) file to install
4. Paste activation key when prompted

##

## User Guide & API Reference

[PDF2IMG User Guide](https://github.com/datalogics/datalogics.github.io/blob/c600730629950fc9714bcda9ce7fafc31b8eaac4/PDF2IMG/PDF2IMG.pdf) on GitHub
