---
navtitle: FLIP2PDF Release Notes
title: FLIP2PDF Release Notes
description: FLIP2PDF Release Notes
icon: null
---

## **Version 2.0.1** (January 25, 2024)

New Features:

- With this release, the flip2pdf docker image version has been increased to 2.1.
- FLIP2PDF now uses PDF Converter 3.2 stable releases. This release includes PDF Converter 3.2.0PlusP1f.

Problem Corrections:

- Adds support for passing in a JobOptions file during PostScript conversion.

## **Pre-2023 Release Notes**

**Version 1.9.0** (December 22, 2022)

New Features:

- Updates logo to new branding in installers and documentation.

**Version 1.8.3** (June 3, 2022)

New Features:

- SF#44045 – Adds "rotate-pages" option to JSON configuration for Postscript to convert Postscript files with rotated pages.

Problem Corrections:

- Corrects an issue in which Unicode characters were not correctly handled in the output file names.

**Version 1.6.0** (June 2, 2021)

Problem Corrections:

- SF#43764 – Corrects an issue in which certain output text was not extractable and appeared as undefined glyphs when copied.

* SF#43890 – Corrects an issue in which multiple FLIP2PDF process instances could be running when converting Office documents.

**Version 1.5.0** (September 10, 2020)

Enhancements:

- Improves the quality of output PDFs for HTML and Office conversion.

Problem Corrections:

- Corrects an issue in which shapes could be missing in the output PDF when converting some Office files.
- Corrects an issue in which encryption was not being applied to Office inputs when the encryption parameter was specified in the command line or in the FLIP2PDFParameters structure.

**Version 1.4.0** (July 7, 2020)

Enhancements:

- SF#43060 – Adds Unicode support for better foreign language display and processing.
- Adds password options to the online help description.
- Accepts HTML headers with XML namespace.

**Version 1.3.0** (April 14, 2020)

Enhancements:

- FLIP2PDF now includes the ability to convert HTML to PDF from a local file or URL. The HTML conversion process supports setting:

* Output page size1) Output page orientation
  2\) Output page margin size
  3\) Web layout view (affects layout of page before conversion)
  4\) Image downsampling
  5\) Image compression
* Adds support for opening password protected Office files
* Adds support for encrypting PDF documents generated from Office files
* Updates LibreOffice to version 6.1.3.2

**Version 1.2.0** (April 23, 2019)

Problem Corrections:

- Resolves issue where license extensions could fail if the user did not have administrator access to the installation directory.
- Reduces the frequency of remote license validation to once every 24 hours.
- Updates software to prompt for a new activation key when the current license is expired or not valid.

**Version 1.1.0** (February 27, 2019)

Enhancements:

- FLIP2PDF is now offered as Pro and Premium versions.
- A new Software Development Kit (SDK) has been added to the product, with an API and a sample program.

Problem Corrections:

- Updates the code to detect and remove LibreOffice log files so that FLIP2PDF always starts successfully.
- Updates the MakeFile to make sure that the sample application can find required resources.

**Version 1.0.4** (January 21, 2019)

Problem Corrections:

- Corrects an issue where input and output files could not be specified as relative paths for Office file conversion.

**Version 1.0.3** (January 16, 2019)

Problem Corrections:

- Corrects an issue with activating license keys on Windows.

**Version 1.0.2** (January 7, 2019)

Problem Corrections:

- Corrects a problem where the Linux version of the software would fail when converting PNG files to PDF documents.
- PDF/X output restricted to PDF/X-3 files.

**Version 1.0.1** (December 18, 2018)

- Initial release of new command line application that converts PostScript, Encapsulated PostScript, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, TIFF, JPEG, BMP, and PNG files to PDF files. Settings can be configured using a JSON profile file.
