---
title: PDF Converter Addendum
description: null
icon: null
---

## Supported Environments

|         |                          |                         |
| ------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------- |
|         |                          |                         |
| **OS**  | **Architecture**         | **Development**         |
| Windows | x86\_64                  | Visual Studio 2019+     |
| Linux   | ARM64 with glibc 2.17+   | Clang 3.9+, or gcc 4.8+ |
| Linux   | x86\_64 with glibc 2.17+ | Clang 3.9+, or gcc 4.8+ |
| macOS   | Apple Silicon            | Xcode 13+               |
| macOS   | Intel x86\_64            | Xcode 13+               |

## **Additional Changes**

- UTF8 Support
- Latest OSS security updates
- Adds a new option disableOverridingCompressionWithFlate to allow image compression filter as specified by input over optimized flate.
- Adds a new parameter relaxDSCSetup for DSC parser to force %%BeginSetup and %%EndSetup when parameter is set to “on”, and the Setup scripts are missing in source file. By default the parameter is set to “off”.
- Adds a new option, ignoreFontsThatCanNotBeEmeddedInOutput, default to off. This option permits processing to proceed without raising an error when a font can’t be embedded in the output PDF.
- Adds new option “--disableclipping=on/off ” to allow text outside of the PageSize to be visible in the content stream. By default text outside the PS page dimensions are tagged with the OUTSIDE\_CLIP state and are not displayed in the PDF content stream. The new option when set to “on” tags the text outside the PS page dimensions with the PARTIALLY\_CLIPPED state allowing the text to be displayed in the PDF content stream.
- Removes PS.VM folder name length restriction of 31 characters for the Mac implementation.
- Adds support for fonts with glyph names that are specified in a manner not consistent with the Adobe Glyph List Specification. This permits a proper encoding for a created font to a ToUnicode table in the PDF.
- Allows continued execution after encountering a Flate encoded image with an incorrect data length.
- Adds support for processing Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) files with preview images by skipping this extraneous data.
- Updates the democonverter sample on Windows to support an input and output Unicode file name.
- Provides means to rotate pages based on text orientation, or based on the %%ViewingOrientation comment when no text appears.
- Adds non-standard character encoding support for PS.VM path, scratch directory path and democonverter location.
- Enhances view rotation so that it is based on text orientation.
- Adds support for non-standard glyph names being mapped to Unicode entries for text extraction support.
