---
title: PDF Forms Extension
description: Work with AcroForm, Static XFA and Dynamic XFA Forms with Adobe PDF Library
icon: null
---

Datalogics offers **Forms Extension**, a software module that allows applications built using the Adobe PDF Library (APDFL) to work with PDF AcroForm and XFA forms documents. The extension is available for separate purchase. With the integration with APDFL18, support for Linux x86\_64 and arm64 was added on to the previously supported Windows x64 systems

## Using the Forms Extension

Forms Extension is installed separately from Adobe PDF Library, but will load every time the Library Initializes. Both AcroForm and XFA documents are fully supported and include functions available in Adobe Acrobat. Its API information can be found [HERE](https://docs.datalogics.com/apdfl18/CPlusPlus/APDFL18.0.5PlusP1p/formsextension_General.html).

:br

Additionally, Forms Extension can:

- Render XFA and AcroForm form documents
- Convert XFA forms to AcroForm
- Import data into XFA and AcroForm documents
- Export data from these form documents to files
- Flatten XFA and AcroForm documents into regular PDF documents, including generating appearances for bar codes

## GitHub Forms Samples

[.NET](https://github.com/datalogics/apdfl-csharp-dotnet-samples/tree/main/Forms)

[.NET Framework](https://github.com/datalogics/apdfl-csharp-dotnet-framework-samples/tree/main/Forms)

[Java](https://github.com/datalogics/apdfl-java-maven-samples/tree/main/Forms)

[C++](https://github.com/datalogics/apdfl-cplusplus-samples/tree/main/Forms)

## Release Notes

Please note PDF Forms Extension has been integrated into [Adobe PDF Library 18](/adobe-pdf-library) release notes.

## Join our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/jNSHcSdRre)!

## Forms Technology

***A history lesson you didn't ask for, but is kind of interesting!***

Adobe Inc. developed Adobe Acrobat Forms, or AcroForm, in 1998. AcroForm is the original PDF forms technology and it remains the primary method for building PDF forms documents today. Many PDF users use Adobe Acrobat to build electronic forms and surveys, adding text fields, check boxes, radio buttons, bar codes, and other form field elements to a PDF document.

XFA, or XML Forms Architecture, is a set of proprietary XML specifications for use with web forms. In 2002 Adobe bought the company that created the XFA standard. XFA can be created and managed using the Adobe Experience Manager, previously known as Adobe LiveCycle Designer software. XFA forms can be saved internally in PDF files. Unlike AcroForm, XFA forms can allow text reflow, so that text fields can resize to allow more content if needed. Dynamic XFA forms can also be interactive, as the form document is built using a series of templates. The form document can respond to the information that a user enters or selects and display a different set of form fields relevant to the user’s answer.

Many XFA documents remain in use, but most PDF documents use AcroForm instead. AcroForms are compatible with a much wider range of software applications, as well as with Acrobat itself. Note also that XFA was deprecated in the new PDF 2.0 format, and is not permitted for use with special ISO formats for PDF documents, including PDF/A, PDF/E, PDF/X, PDF/UA, and PDF/VT. Further, XFA is not supported on mobile devices.

**We won't quiz you on this.**

## [](/adobe-pdf-library/release-notes)
