---
navtitle: PDF Forms Flattener Release Notes
title: PDF Forms Flattener Release Notes
description: PDF Forms Flattener Release Notes
---

## **PDF Forms Flattener 4.1.0** (August 26, 2024)

Problem Corrections:

- This addresses a DLL signing problem

## **PDF Forms Flattener 4.0.0** (July 22, 2024)

New Features:

- Built with APDFL v18.0.4PlusP3a
- Adds support for Linux x64
- Adds support for Linux ARM64

## **PDF Forms Flattener 3.1.0** (March 07, 2024)

New Features:

- Updates Forms Extension to version 2.3.0.

Problem Corrections:

- SF#45662 - This corrects an issue where a DateTimeEdit field with improper formatting could be dropped from the Flattened result. This corrects an issue where Text underneath a barcode could be slightly cropped in the Flattened result.
- SF#45892 – Corrects a problem where Flattening a XFA document could result in a Signature being dropped.
- SF#46015 – This corrects a problem flattening a XFA document with a shared Text Field intended for displaying content on different pages.

## **PDF Forms Flattener 3.0.0** (April 17, 2023)

New Features:

- Adds the ability to Export data from XFA PDF files to disk as .xdp, .xfd, or .xml file.
- Adds new parameter "flatten, -f" with value "skip" to import data from disk to XFA without Flattening.
- Adds new parameter "flatten, -f" with value "skip" to Import data from disk to AcroForms without Flattening.
- Adds the ability to export data from Acroform PDF files to disk as .xfdf, .fdf, or .xml files.
- Adds new option "--convert, -c" to convert XFA to AcroForms.
- Drops support for positional parameters.\* Arguments must be passed using the existing -h, -i, -o, -d delineators.
  * "-asprinted was removed and refactored into the new "flatten, -f" parameter. It can be used as "-f asprinted".
  * Adds new parameter "flatten, -f" with value "skip" to generate missing annotation appearance without flattening.

## **Pre-2023 Release Notes**

**PDF Forms Flattener 2.3.0** (December 15, 2022)

Problem Corrections:

- SF45276 – This corrects a problem with preserving the formatting of XFA fields when a document is Flattened.

**PDF Forms Flattener 2.2.0** (August 11, 2022)

Problem Corrections:

- SF#45182 – Corrects an issue in which the formatting of a XFA fields was not preserved when Flattened.
- SF#45186 – Corrects an issue in which Flattening an XFA document could result in a blank document.

**PDF Forms Flattener 2.1.0** (April 1, 2022)

New Features:

- Uses new API for Forms Types provided in Forms Extension release 2.1.0.

Problem Corrections:

- SF#44687 – Corrects an issue in which a Dynamic XFA document using JavaScript to define its layout of elements could fail to be converted to PDF as expected.

**PDF Forms Flattener 2.0.2**(August 4, 2021)

New Features:

- SF#44445 – Corrects an issue in which flattening an XFA document with a shared Text Field using Rich Text could result in missing elements after flattening.

**PDF Forms Flattener 2.0.1** (July 7, 2021)

New Features:

- Adds a new optional command line argument --asPrinted or -p, which will flatten an XFA document as if it was printed.

Problem Corrections:

- SF#44011 – Corrects an issue which could result in an exception being raised when flattening an XFA document.
- SF#44292 – Corrects an issue that could result in a duplicated text when flattening an XFA document with a shared text field using Rich Text intended to display content on different pages.

**PDF Forms Flattener 1.0.0** (May 4, 2020)

Initial release of a simple command line application.

- Flattens both XFA and AcroForm PDF form documents to standard PDF format
- Optionally imports data into PDF form documents before flattening
- Generates appearances for annotations in PDF documents
